FactoryBean configuration is very similar to the init
method configuration we just did.
It actually builds on the factory method design pattern,
and at least its functionality is built to work the same way.
It's actually one of the strengths of doing this with Spring.
The code doesn't actually have to be written as a factory
to be utilized in Spring as a factory.
It's also a great way to integrate legacy code into your application.
You can actually enforce a contract in how your code is configured
without creating a specific constructor for it.
Typically, creational contracts are implemented in a constructor,
but with legacy code,
we often don't have the ability to modify it due to existing commitments.
Using this pattern enables us to establish a
contract without modifying that code.
Lastly, it's how you can also work with static methods inside of a class.
Let's look at implementing a simple demo of a
FactoryBean inside of our code now.
For our demo, I've opened up our conference-java project,
and I'm going to navigate down to my source,
main, java directory and specifically my com.pluralsight package,
and right-click, and say New, Java Class.
And in here, I want to type util.CalendarFactory.
And for our demo,
we're actually going to wrap a calendar instance in a factory so that we can
manipulate some things and show you some examples with it.
So now that we have this in here, we want to type implements FactoryBean,
and FactoryBean is typed,
so we want to pass in or type it with a Calendar object.
And you'll have a red squiggly line underneath the code,
and it's because we need to implement the methods that the FactoryBean
interface is telling us we need inside of our application.
So if I hover over that and choose Implement methods,
and I want getObject and getObjectType, click OK,
it'll out those default implementations in there for me.
Now before we get into editing those,
let's start off by saying private Calendar instance = Calendar.getInstance.
And then in our getObject, we want to return that instance,
and for our getObjectType, we want to do Calendar.class.
Now we have the contract for our factory setup.
The next thing that we want to do is add some value to our factory wrapped bean,
so we're going to add a public void addDays method inside of here,
and this is just a simple example to show that we can take this
static instance and add some functionality around it that we can then
utilize inside the rest of our application.
So we're going to take and say instance.add ( Calendar.DAY_OF_YEAR, num).
So what this will do is just take and add the number of days to
our instance that we pass into this method.
So we'll save this, and it's a little bit of a contrived example,
but it gets the point across.
Now we have our FactoryBean implemented, and yours should look similar to mine.
We have our imports and package structure all the same at the top.
We have our factory that implements the FactoryBean
and it's typed with Calendar.
We have our instance.
We get our object back, our contract with our Calendar.class,
and our method to add some days to that instance.
So now we can go ahead and configure this,
and we're going to do this a little bit different than you might expect.
We're going to open our AppConfig that we had before,
and we want to create two beans inside of here.
We're going to create one for our actual bean instance and one for our factory.
We're going to start off with the first one,
and this is an @Bean, and we're going to give this a name = cal,
and then we want to create a method that is public CalendarFactory,
and we'll call this the calFactory.
And it will have an instance of our CalendarFactory
factory = new CalendarFactory.
And this is where we can say factory.addDays.
We're going to pass in just the number 2 here and return our factory instance.
So there's our first bean.
The second bean we're going to do as @Bean,
and we'll do public Calendar, and this will be our actual calendar instance,
cal, and this throws Exception.
And inside of here, we'll return calFactory.getObject.
So this is where we're actually getting the instance from our factory itself.
Now, we need to add all of our imports, save this,
and our bean's configured to use.
Now you're wondering, what did we just configure?
Well, let's implement this into our code and actually see how it's used now.
You actually don't need to worry about line 12,
that method for the calFactory because we're just setting that up to use.
We're actually going to look like we're using it from
inside of our code as an autowired bean.
I'm going to open up my HibernateSpeakerRepository.
And inside of here, now I can just say @Autowired and do private Calendar cal.
And inside of my code, to make this a full- fledged example,
I'd go ahead and add a date or something like that to my speaker object.
I'll just put a System.out .println here where you can
see what this instance actually is.
And we'll say cal, and we'll do cal.getTime,
and save this, and now we can run our application.
So all I did was autowire this bean in, and as you can maybe guess,
it's going to have been called from the FactoryBean of our calendar object.
We have our static code that was called from that calendar object,
added days to it, worked with it, manipulated things,
and now we can reference it inside of our code.
Before this,
there was not a way for us to really reference a
calendar object and pass it in this way.
Let me run our application, right-click on our main method, and say Run.
And you'll see when this runs down below that we have our no args constructor,
we have our post construct still in there from our previous example,
our service instance,
but you can see I have a calendar object and it's added 2 days to
my object and printed that out to the screen.
Then I have our name and that other object address.
So you can see right here that we have our cal: Fri Nov.
That came from our SpeakerRepository instance,
and that's hinged on the day that I ran this where
it's printing this out to the screen.
So I have my calendar that's dumped out,
and it's going to head through that CalendarFactory,
added those days to our years from our configuration.
So we added two days to it.
This is a great way if you had to pass in a bunch of dates,
or times,
or objects of that nature into your application for you to utilize a
static instance like this and be able to manipulate that and then
inject that wherever you want in your code.
Maybe you have audit columns on your database tables.
There's other ways to do that, but just shows you a good example of how you can utilize this.